# CAUD-Law-contract-prediction
Contracts are agreements between entities like companies and individuals often accompanied by a terms of service that decides what role and limitations each entity has within the agreement. Common examples of contracts in action can be seen in collaborations between your favorite athleisure brands like Nike and Michael Jordan to produce Jordan brand sneakers or even something close to home like the collaboration between Raising Canes chicken fingers and singer Post Malone. 
But for specialists who work with contracts on a daily basis, understanding the type of contract, the length of the typical contract, and how different clauses contained in the contract affect its identity, can be instrumental to accomplishing the task at hand. In roles like legal or auditorial services, workers often have to rely on reading each contract in order to discern the type of contract. This process is tedious and time consuming, however, key clauses inside of each contract can help create a profile of the type of contract, for example an Intellectual Property contract may have creative licensing terms and agreements as a part of its contract. Understanding these clauses are a great way to save time and effort when identifying the nature of contracts. 
Our project will build on this topic. Our two questions will be to answer if we can use classification models to predict the type as well as the duration of different classes of contracts based on whether or not certain clauses exist inside of each contract. This model will seek to understand the relationship between clauses and contracts so it may potentially remedy the costly and tedious process of contract classification. 

Data Overview
	Our dataset was taken from a part of the Atticus project, containing a collection of 510 contracts that have been manually labeled under the supervision of experienced lawyers used mainly for contract analysis. Contained within each contract are ~40 different clauses, these clauses range between different topics, well known clauses are: exclusivity, non-compete, and IP ownership. The original dataset also contained 25 different types of contracts each with a boolean and text indicating if a specific clause exists and if so, the short text of the contents inside those clauses (Table 1, Appendix). The dataset and our analysis will all be using categorical labels to predict both contract class and contract duration.
	In addition to boolean and text data, the dataset also contains columns with dates indicating when the contract first goes into effect and when the contract expires. The full contract contained additional data columns containing more specific information such as the entity names of the company/subjects which the contract affected as well as what geographic laws the contracts were subject to resulting in a precleaned dataset size of 510 rows and 83 columns. However, for our two questions we mainly paid attention to the types of contract, the ~40 clauses, and the dates. 
